Alright, we'll uh, go ahead and take
some time to jump into the word today.
Question, is anybody in here that
wasn't here last week that wants to
help in the, uh, PaulFest that we're
doing Tuesday, Sept or, September 19th?
Is anybody in here that didn't
sign up that wants to sign up?
Because I think there's a lot of people
in here that already signed up last week.
Basically, I want to encourage you, if you
haven't signed up to help September 19th,
I'm gonna have this at the end of service.
To be able to sign up, because we're
trying to get as many people as possible.
Um, because we probably need another
5 or 10 volunteers to make sure that
we can run that, um, event well.
So we're super excited to do it.
We've been getting a lot
of the details together.
We'll be communicating more of that this
week to those of you that will be serving.
Um, so, anyways, if you're
interested in helping in that, I'm
gonna make sure we get that, uh,
signed up at the end of service.
Uh, but we are continuing
our series in Genesis.
Um, today we're going to be in Genesis
chapter 2 and the first 3 verses, uh, but
we covered all of Genesis 1 last week and
I kind of explained it this way whenever
we walked through a lot of verses and a
lot of content in a short amount of time.
I kind of communicated it this way,
number one, um, not able to communicate
and cover every single verse, verse by
verse, and talk through every detail.
Um, and my encouragement for you is
if you're interested in anything from
chapter one of Genesis that you, like,
ah, I'd love to know more about it.
Um, my encouragement is one,
go study it on your own.
Um, the Bible Project has
some great resources to study
Genesis even deeper, deeper.
Um, and so that's one way to do it.
Um, but our goal with going
through the book of Genesis is
looking at more transformation
rather than just information.
Here, here's what I would say with
this is most Old Testament books of the
Bible, you can go really, really deep.
And you can get a lot of
information, which, what I
would say, may float your boat.
Like, that may be exciting to you, and
that may be good for you spiritually,
and I challenge you to go do that.
But ultimately, like, we can't do all
that deep dive in here, uh, practically,
uh, and, and keep moving through it.
So I wanted to make sure that
we focused more on that idea of
transformation rather than information.
Although, we're still
covering a lot of information.
And then today, you're going to kind
of laugh because we covered one whole
chapter last week, and we're going
to cover three whole verses today.
Uh, but we've stopped today to cover
these verses because they're important.
Uh, but kind of speaking of the first
six days of creation, I kind of want
to share this, uh, funny little story.
I don't know if you guys have
ever heard of the story about
a management consultant, a,
uh, gardener, and a politician.
They were sitting in a pub one
day, and they began to talk about
who has the greatest profession.
And they decided to use the Bible
as kind of the reasoning why
they had the greatest profession.
And so, the gardener goes and says,
Well, in Genesis 3, God created
plants, so gardening must be the
greatest profession out there.
Well, the management consultant basically
said, well, in Genesis, basically the
first couple of verses, uh, in the first
day, he created, um, order out of chaos.
He said, so management must
be the greatest profession.
And the politician said, wait,
but who created the chaos?
So the politician must be the greatest.
Uh, obviously, in that.
So, we didn't talk specifically about
that, but I thought that was funny
when I began to study a little bit
more about this idea behind creation.
What's the greatest day of creation?
And last week, I think we actually
decided that the greatest day of
creation is all of them, right?
But ultimately, we are
God's greatest creation.
And, uh, we learned this, number
one, who created us, right?
We learned last week who created
us and the world that we live in.
And ultimately, that was God.
Nobody else other than God.
Uh, and then two, we learned
what we were created for.
Right?
To be image bearers of God to the world.
To reflect His spiritual nature
and character to those around us.
And I hope that was to take home for you.
And we're going to kind of
build off that again today.
And I really asked this question at
the end of the message last week.
With this idea of, if we know
that we were created by God.
And we were created to
reflect God's character.
Is that enough to motivate
us the rest of our lives in
sharing who He is with others?
In reflecting God to others?
And my hope is that is true for
you as much as it should be true
for any follower of Jesus if
you've given your life to Christ.
But today we get to talk
about day seven, right?
So we talked about six days all last week.
We're gonna talk about one day.
And this day stands alone by
itself and that's why I think it...
Um, is important for us to discuss
this day as a stand alone message.
And we're going to talk
about the idea of rest.
We'll talk about three
things in the idea of rest.
Number one, we're actually going
to talk about the purpose of the
Seventh day rest, um, in creation.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to kind of just dive specifically into
that Seventh day, those three verses,
and say, what is God saying there?
And then we're going to say, okay,
but what does that mean in the grand
picture of the Bible and in our lives?
Um, so we're going to kind of look at
that and Elona in itself, and then we're
going to move to when we first see,
um, the seventh day or the Sabbath rest
really talked about more, and that's
in Exodus 16 with the people of Israel,
and we'll kind of talk about that.
So that's going to be the second
thing that we talk about and how
that was implemented into their life
as a rhythm of rest once a week.
Uh, and then we're going to say and answer
hopefully this last question, which I
think many of us may wonder, is it a
command for us to take a Sabbath rest?
Now, right?
So, we read the Bible, and we read the Old
Testament, and sometimes what we say about
the Old Testament, well, the Old Testament
law was fulfilled in Jesus Christ, so
the Old Testament is not valuable for us.
Well, that's not true.
It is true that He did fulfill the law.
It is not true that it's
not valuable for us.
It is very valuable for us.
But what we're really going to
understand this idea of is that
something that should be important.
To take rest.
And what is rest?
And I think that we'll kind of build
this case today that the initial rest,
The rest that God had on the seventh day
is ultimately what he has been trying to
provide for us ever since the fall of man.
And he fulfilled that, and he
provided that through Jesus.
And that's the culmination,
really, of this message.
So you guys may not need anything
else after you've heard all that.
You're probably good.
Um, but let's dive into this text.
Genesis chapter 2.
We're just gonna read
the first three verses.
We're gonna add a ton of other
verses in to kind of help build
out the idea behind rest later.
But we're gonna start with
these first three verses.
verses here in Genesis chapter 2.
So it says this, So the heavens
and the earth and everything
in them were completed.
And on the seventh day, God had
completed his work that he had done,
and he rested on the seventh day from
all of his work that he had done.
God blessed the seventh day and
declared it holy, for on it he rested
from all the work of his creation.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray that through your word
and through today's message, Lord, that
each one of us will take something home.
Lord, to be transformed and
changed, to be able to understand
you more and Lord, to understand
really what rest truly is in you.
And so Lord, we just pray this
in your heavenly name, Amen.
Let me get a question for you.
How many people in here
need some more rest?
Anybody?
Okay.
We live in a society that it
seems like the majority of
us want more time, more rest.
We seem to be tired more and it seems
like we're never going to accomplish.
All the things that we have to do in life.
Um, and the reason why that is is because
it seems like that there's something
deep down inside of us that we have
to do more and more and more, and I
believe that we'll learn a little bit
about the idea behind rest, and how we
can receive that in the midst of that.
Um, but we're gonna talk
specifically about the actual
purpose of the seventh day of rest
here in these first three verses.
And just right off the bat, one
of the things, I, I wanna, I
wanna look at this in its setting.
Nowhere in these three verses does
it say, man should do these things.
This is just speaking of God Himself.
And I think that's so important
when we study the word of God a lot
of times we quickly want to jump
to, how does this apply to my life?
And I think we want to really look at,
how did this apply to God in that time?
And so nowhere did it specifically
talk about man and what he should do in
regards to rest in these three verses.
But what I would say is, although,
as followers of Jesus, we should
pattern ourselves after God, and I
think we should look at this as well.
Um, But one of the things we, we
see here is We, we don't see, uh,
God resting because He's tired.
I think that's probably the question.
I mean, was God so tired
for six days of creation?
He was just drenched with sweat
and He was so exhausted, He needed
to just collapse for a full day.
Anybody had to do that before?
Like, work six hard days and you
just need to collapse for a day?
See, that wasn't God.
God wasn't tired.
And what we see here is in Isaiah 40, 28,
it says this, The Lord is the everlasting
God, the creator of the ends of the earth.
He will not grow tired or weary.
And it's understanding no one can fathom.
So we understand this idea is that God
wasn't tired, that wasn't why he rested.
Um, but he really used this day as
a way to set it apart, because all
the work he had done was finished.
He was completed with his work and he
was pleased and he was satisfied with it.
One of the things I think that's
so cool, is it took the culmination
of six days to come to the point of
creating his greatest creation, us.
And he said, it is good.
And he said it's very good
when he looked at his creation
and he really looked at us.
And he was satisfied enough
to rest knowing that we, his
greatest creation, was enough.
That it was good.
And so there's three things that
are distinctive about this seventh
day that we'll see in here.
Number one, you'll mention from last
week if you think about it, uh, at
the six days, at the end of every
day, let's say it was evening and
then it was morning and then it was
the first day or the second day.
Right?
It would say those things every time.
But we don't see that
statement in the seventh day.
We don't see there was
evening and there was morning.
And I started really thinking about,
why don't we see on the seventh day
that there was an evening and a morning?
And many believers, when we get to
study this, is the reason why God
didn't say that is that the rest that
God was resting from, like He was
resting from all of His work, was
something that He was going to live in
and experience the rest of creation.
That he wanted his creation to
rest in him, to rest in what was
already created, to experience the
blessing of what was already there.
So there was never a need for another day.
This was the day to live in.
And I think that's really cool
when we begin to think about that
idea that this day of rest would
have been something that would have
continued on and on and on and on.
I believe that was the goal
of God in the beginning.
And I believe that's the goal of God in
the future, an eternal rest with God.
Um, but what we found is after the
fall, and again we're not going to get
into the details of this, but after the
fall of man, that rest was taken away.
Um, and God has been pursuing us to
be able to give us that rest again.
So the other thing that we'll see that
was distinctive about the seventh day
is that God blessed the seventh day.
You'll see that in verse three.
God blessed the seventh day.
Now, we talked last week that
God blessed animals, right?
He blessed humans to do what?
Does anybody remember?
To be fruitful and multiply.
So he was, he wanted to bless, uh,
see if he wanted to bless animals
to be fruitful and multiply.
He had multiple kids, and
I even referenced this.
I believe he wanted this to be fruitful
and multiply spiritually as well.
But one of the things we didn't
see is God never blessed a specific
day, but he blessed this day.
When we think about a blessing,
it's something special.
It's something to remember.
It's something to experience.
I don't know about you guys, but if
somebody says, I want to give you a
blessing, I fully want to experience that.
Blessing.
Okay, so I look at this and saying God
wants us to experience this blessing.
He wants us to experience
it forever, right?
This day of rest.
And then the last thing that
we see here is that God made
the day holy or set apart.
You see that again at the end of verse
three, that it was holy and on it
he rested from the work of creation.
And so when we think about the idea
of holy, this work holy set apart is
it's one that needs to be remembered.
It's it's set apart for a special purpose.
It's something for us to remember.
So when we think about this, the actual
purpose of the seventh day for God was to
cease from the work that he had done, to
rest from it and to remember his creation,
to celebrate and bask in the magnitude of
his creation and to enjoy his creation.
I believe that was God's goal
on the seventh day, and I
believe God created that day.
And the six days before for
us to experience that from the
time that we were created until
the time of eternity, honestly.
And so we look at this day as a huge day.
And so this is a question.
I'm going to have some questions to
just pose to you to process through
at the end of each kind of idea
that we're walking through here.
Number one, this is the first one.
As image bearers of Christ, or as
image bearers of God, which we had
learned last week, that's what we are,
do we reflect God's spiritual nature?
Do we reflect God's spiritual nature
of resting and ceasing from work
on a regular basis to celebrate,
worship, and enjoy His creation?
I'll say this again.
Do we reflect God's spiritual nature
of resting and ceasing from work
on a regular basis to celebrate,
worship, and enjoy His creation?
Do we model after God, if it was good
enough for God to rest, and bask in the
glory of creation, and to celebrate,
and set it apart, and make it a special
day, and to experience the blessing?
Do we experience that blessing today?
That's a really challenging
statement because most of you would
be like, I don't got time to rest.
I have nine kids running around.
I have six jobs that I'm doing.
I have this, this, this, and this.
Okay, most of us maybe
don't experience that.
My challenge today as we go through
this is that you do find a way to
experience that because it is a
blessing that God has given us.
So, the first thing, right, was
trying to understand just in these
three verses, What was God saying?
What did it mean here?
But God didn't stop there.
One of the reasons God didn't stop
there is He kind of built on the seventh
day of rest in the book of Exodus.
So we have Genesis that we're
going to cover over, you know,
hopefully a couple of years.
The next book is Exodus.
Exodus is all about Moses.
Most of us would probably know Moses, but
if you don't, Moses ended up helping lead
the people of Israel, God's people, the
special people, set apart out of slavery.
They were put into slavery for 400 years.
Moses led them up out of Egypt, and
if you remember, he split the waters,
they crossed over, and they were
heading to the Promised Land, and
on their way to the Promised Land,
God began to set something in place.
And so we want to see where God begins
to bring back up, for the first time
since the seventh day, He begins
to bring back up this idea of rest.
Rest on the seventh day.
And so how is the Sabbath rest
implemented in the life of the people
of God, or the people of Israel?
And so we're gonna kind of look at
this and I think in order to understand
Genesis two verses one through
three, we need to look and see how
it was continued to be spoke about
throughout the rest of the Bible.
And so what we're gonna do is we're
gonna be in Exodus 16 verses 22 and 23.
So if you want to turn there, you
can Exodus 16 verses 22 through 23.
Then we're also gonna cover 1629 as well.
Uh, and we're gonna have
those verses up behind us.
But in Exodus 16, here's what, um,
is said to the people of Israel.
On the sixth day, they gathered twice
as much food, four quarts apiece.
And the leaders of the community
came and reported this to Moses.
And he told them, this is
what the Lord has said.
Tomorrow is a day of complete rest.
A holy Sabbath to the Lord.
Bake what you want to bake and
boil what you want to boil.
And set aside everything left
over to be kept until morning.
And then we see in Exodus 16, 29, it
says this, it says, Understand that
the Lord has given you the Sabbath.
Therefore, on the sixth day, he has
given you two days worth of bread.
Each of you stay where you are.
No one is to leave his
place on the seventh day.
So there's so much more to this story that
I don't have time to unpack, but I want
to kind of bring out two points from the
idea of the first time we see anything
about rest, from creation was the seventh
day of rest, this is the first time
we begin to see this really practiced.
This the Bible again, and we
would see that God would implement
this for the people of Israel on
their way to the promised land.
Does anybody know that there was a lot of
walking involved and a lot of travel and
a lot of work to move that many people
all the way over to the promised land?
So when we think about this, I think
it was a blessing, think about it, a
blessing that God was providing for the
people of Israel because he knew that
they would be exhausted trying to do this.
It's seven days a week, you know,
constantly, constantly moving.
So, when we think about the original
purpose of creation was a blessing, God
implemented this as a blessing to the
people of Israel on their travels, right?
So it was a benefit for them, right?
It wasn't a burden to take this rest.
It was a benefit given to them.
And so that's the first thing that
we see here when we look at this.
He says, tomorrow will be
a day of complete rest.
Obviously set up to the Lord, but
he says he's given it to them.
It was a gift given to them.
And I think when we think about this
as ourselves, most of society would
say, if you want to get further
in life, you need to work harder.
You need to work harder.
And in God's economy,
sometimes we need to work less.
Because in working less, and that's
going to sound weird, because you're
going to go to your boss and say, well,
my pastor said I need to work less.
I need some more time off.
And if you get fired,
don't blame the pastor.
Okay.
Bring it to the Lord.
And when we think about this, that
rest is actually resting in the
Lord to provide what you need.
The Lord actually provided on the
sixth day for the people of Israel
everything they needed to take the rest.
And most of us, including myself at
times, struggles to believe on the sixth
day that God will provide enough on the
sixth day to rest on the seventh day.
That's, that's a little bit convicting
when it comes to faith, right?
And so when we think about this
rest that He gave the people of
Israel on their journey, He already
provided the food, but this would
allow them to do a couple things.
It would allow them to experience
the rest that God had originally
designed for them on the seventh day.
If you think about it, the seventh
day rest was given, and Adam and
Eve got to experience that rest.
But when sin came into the
world, that rest was taken away.
And so God set apart this day for them
to begin to experience a taste of.
This is a cool picture to think that
God would set apart this day for
them to begin to experience, right
there in that day, all the things
that He had originally designed.
So the next thing that we see, this
is that the Sabbath was created,
uh, as holy unto the Lord, set
apart to remember a few things.
If you remember, go back to creation,
seventh day, it was set apart as holy.
So these all line up, that the
same purpose that God gave them the
Sabbath day, the Sabbath day rest.
It's the same reason why he
rested on the seventh day.
So we see it was something
to be continued on, right?
So he set it apart for a few things.
Number one is to worship, right?
We already kind of talked about that.
But to worship the Lord, who is the
creator and provider of everything.
It would give them time.
Rather than working to go find their
food and to travel, they could rest
and eat the food that was provided by
them, by God, and worship and thank Him.
Do you think that's valuable
to do even in our own lives?
Dude, do we really truly take time?
I mean, I'll tell you this.
Usually, I used to be this person.
Like, I loved to eat out.
Now, I love to eat in.
And Brittany cooks some
of the most amazing meals.
She's in here, so I can say that today.
She cooks some of the most amazing
meals, and I love to eat in.
And a lot of times we pray before
meals, and a lot of times we're like,
Lord, thank you so much for this food.
But, honestly, sometimes I wonder,
like, I'm wanting my kids to hurry
up and pray because I'm so hungry.
I'm truly not worshiping the
Lord and saying thank you.
For allowing me to have the job that
I have, and the wife that I have, and
the ingredients that we have, because
the craziest thing, y'all, we thought,
we talked about this last week.
Every single thing that it took to
make that food came from creation.
We learned last week that
everything that comes from
creation is from the creator, God.
And we quickly, say that quick prayer so
that we can eat the food so that we can
go watch the Bengals game, because we
know the Bengals game is coming up, right?
And I'm not against any of that.
But do we really truly take time,
just like they, God had given them
time, to worship and thank God for
everything that they had, right?
And, again, there's more that I can't
talk about in this text, but God gave
them this day, He provided double the
amount of food the day before, and the
next day, you know what many of them did?
They were out wandering,
looking for more food.
And they were like, where's the food?
And God's like, but I told you,
on the sixth day I would provide
enough for you to take rest.
And they were still trying to work.
They were still trying to do
it on their own, and they were
missing out on the blessing.
Man, does that sound familiar to anybody?
Because sometimes we're missing
out on the blessing of the rest
that God gives to us, right?
So the second thing we learn here,
right, that He set apart this day,
holy unto the Lord, is to remind them
of God's perfect rest at creation.
So think about this.
It not only allows us to thank God
for what we have, but it allows
us to go back to creation and
think, Wow, God created everything,
and He created this day as well.
Specially, special and holy unto the Lord.
A blessing to my life.
So it allowed them to remember creation.
Allowed them to remind
them of their creator.
And the purpose of that day of rest.
And to really reflect on them.
Right, so that's another thing
that it allowed them to do.
The last one, which I
think is so important.
It repentance.
Because in the day of rest, does
anybody ever catch themselves when
you actually rest and reflect?
You begin to see cracks in your
life, but when you're going, you
kind of just ignore the cracks.
Maybe that's just me.
So I'll just be the example.
Whenever I stop and I actually
reflect, conviction comes in my life
because I see the cracks in my life.
And I see the areas where I'm not
experiencing the blessing of God.
And it allowed them, and it
allows us time to repent.
Repentance isn't a bad thing.
It's actually a wonderful thing
because it allows you to turn from
that which is not valuable for you.
and experience what's best
for you from God, right?
So those three things
were given to them, right?
And we eventually see in Exodus 20,
where God even adds the Sabbath rest as a
commandment in the Ten Commandments, right
in the middle of the Ten Commandments.
Um, and so it's interesting that
He even put it there because
He wanted it to be a blessing.
And what we'll later learn, what we're
getting ready to talk about, is that
the Sabbath to the Israelites and then
Jews at that time, It wasn't a blessing.
It became a burden.
So here's my challenging question
for you after kind of hearing when
God began to implement the Sabbath
rest for the Israelites, is this.
Is as an image bearer of God to the
world, if God saw it important for
the people of Israel to take a Sabbath
rest, to remember these things, right?
Do you think it's important for
us to experience a Sabbath rest?
I hope all these you guys are going
to say yes and amen rather than no.
I disagree.
I would say that if we see God provided
this as a blessing to the Israelites,
do you want to receive that blessing?
Yes.
Can I tell you, I want to receive
that blessing, but even I struggle
with the experience of that blessing.
So if you're wondering, like, man,
pastor's really getting on me.
No, pastor's looking in the mirror and
going, man, I'm really getting on you.
Like, this is hard to comprehend, but
this is why God has given us His word.
It's why His word does not return void.
That's why it is sharper than a
double edged sword, that splits
the hairs of our heart, and it
convicts us not to make us feel bad.
It convicts us to want to
experience better than what we have.
So let's see the last statement, right?
We obviously, now we learned
what was first implemented,
right, with the Israelites.
But now the question is,
that was Old Testament times.
That was creation times.
That was God.
Why do we still have
to take a Sabbath rest?
Is it a command?
Is it still a command
to take a Sabbath rest?
I think you're going to be
interested in what answer I give you.
But let's start with Mark chapter 2.
Mark chapter 2, verses
27 through 28 says this.
The Sabbath was made for
man, not man for the Sabbath.
So then, the Son of Man is
Lord even over the Sabbath.
Let me just kind of translate this.
The Sabbath day was meant to
be a blessing, not a burden.
It was meant to be a blessing to those
who observed it and not a burden.
Why do we even say this?
In Jesus day, at this point, the
Pharisees had added around 39 other
laws and rules attached to the Sabbath.
Which means it wasn't just rest
from eating or going out and like...
Cooking food and whatever.
It was like all these other things.
You can't do this.
You must stand on one
leg, hop around and wait.
You can't do that because that's moving.
So like, they begin to add all these laws.
Here's the thing.
If you go to Israel
today, present day Israel.
I actually went a couple of years ago.
Um, On Shabbat, which is the Sabbath day.
If you are in a hotel room,
You, the buttons don't work.
And the, uh, Elevators
stop on every floor.
Because they don't want
you to have to work.
You're going to be pushing buttons.
They don't even want the elevator
to have to, like, function, like
it just kind of works on its own.
Like they go to all these other
levels to not, to follow the
Sabbath laws that were set.
And God, through Jesus, begins to kind
of say like, Woah, woah, woah, like,
You've missed the point of the Sabbath.
Right?
And so the Jews had turned it
into a religious duty, rather
than what God had intended.
And we even see this in Isaiah
chapter 1 in the Old Testament, they
were getting it wrong there as well.
But what was happening is, in the Old
Testament, the Israelites were, uh, doing
all these rituals, including the Sabbath.
They were doing them all
correctly, but they weren't
doing them with the right heart.
Here's what he basically says in Isaiah
chapter 1, I don't even have this up
there, but just kind of summarize it.
God basically said to them, stop
bringing your useless offerings and
celebrations and celebrations of
Sabbaths, because your heart's not in it.
I don't even want your offerings.
Don't even bring them, because
your heart is not in it.
You're not even coming
for the right reason.
Translation?
I think, at times, I read the Bible,
I close it, and I checkmark it off,
and I walk away, and God's saying,
You shouldn't have read that.
You shouldn't even, your heart
wasn't, you didn't even care.
Anybody ever been there?
I think, he could even
be talking about that.
I Grist, but I think he
could be talking about that.
But we look at this really ultimately,
he says this, that the Son of Man, which
is Jesus, is Lord even over the Sabbath.
So Jesus ultimately came to fulfill
the purpose of the Sabbath by
coming to die in our place so that
we could experience eternal rest.
God's original design on day seven.
So we come full circle
where God had rested.
He wanted his creation to
experience this eternal rest.
Brokenness came into their lives and
they were not able to experience it.
God began to implement the day of Sabbath
rest to begin to experience a, a, what
we call a foretaste or an a, a, a preview
of what that rest could be in the Lord.
And then Jesus came to fulfill it and
to give it to us now and for eternity.
He is the Lord of the Sabbath.
So what does this mean?
Should we take a Sabbath?
I'm actually going to give
you a yes and no answer.
A yes and no answer.
The reason why as you begin to study the
New Testament, the Sabbath is actually
not necessarily one of the main, like
out of the ten laws, it's one of the
ones that's not least talked about.
Not really talked about as though even
Jesus did a lot of things on the Sabbath.
Now you saw him take days of rest,
so don't miss what I'm hearing here.
You see him take days of rest, but I'm
going to read this verse to you, and I'm
hoping that it doesn't give you It's not
an excuse, but it challenges you to really
reflect on why we do take a Sabbath.
So Colossians chapter 2, verses 16 and
17, this is coming from Paul the Apostle.
He says, don't, so don't let
anyone condemn you for what you
eat or what you drink, or for not
celebrating certain holidays, or
new moon ceremonies, or Sabbaths.
For these rules are only shadows
of the reality yet to come, and
Christ himself is that reality.
So, do we have to take a Sabbath rest?
The answer is no.
In fact, the, Jesus fulfilled the law.
When he, when we receive Jesus as Lord and
Savior, we are provided that eternal rest.
So no, technically, we're not
under the law to have to take that.
Now, I'll come back to this and say this.
When we, I, I use the word command.
Like, is it commanded
that we have to do this?
No!
We are free in Christ.
Jesus has paid the cost of our
sins so that we can experience
eternal rest with him.
But to experience God's rest,
now, God's best now, God set the
standard of day seven when he rested.
He continued to give that
blessing to the Israelites.
And I would believe this, that even
Jesus modeled the need for rest.
He modeled it where he would take his
disciples away from the work and he says,
We need to get away from the crowds.
And they would be like, but
Jesus, people need you, and he's
basically saying, no, we need God.
We need time with God.
We need time to reflect.
We need time to repent.
We need time to refresh.
We need time to renew.
But if we don't take time to
renew, we are giving our leftovers.
Not only to God, we're giving
our leftovers to the world.
What is our call from last week?
Our call from last week is to be
lightbearers, to be lights to the world.
of who Jesus is.
How can we be lights to the world
if we aren't reflecting Christ?
If we're not reflecting God's
character and what God chose
to do in taking times of rest.
One person said amen, but the rest
of you are on their knees, okay?
We need to take time to
reflect and celebrate and cease
to work just like God did.
Not just because we're physically tired.
We are physical beings, and that's
why God gave us sleep, and I
tell people this all the time.
I look at sleep.
As a reminder of our need for rest,
not just sleep rest, but we're talking
about rest away from world work life.
Because when we sleep, when we
sleep, and some of you aren't
getting much of that lately, but
when you sleep, you are refreshed.
You're able to do more things in a
lot better fashion than if you aren't
rested, if you haven't slept much.
Is it not the same spiritually?
When we rest in the Lord, we take time
to reflect, just like He meant it.
When we take time to reflect.
So it's not meant to be a burden,
it's meant to be a blessing.
So we should truly seek the
Lord and remember why we would
celebrate and take a time of rest.
It's not a ritual, it's a relationship.
And the people of Israel
miss this, and we can too.
We can look at it and say this.
Again, you may be the person that heard me
today and said, Well Pastor Ben just said
we don't have to take a rest, we're good.
Jesus paid it all and all this
I I, I'm telling you, I've heard
people say this, I've quoted this.
I'll rest when I get to heaven.
It's time to work True.
You may get there a lot quicker
if you keep not resting.
Okay.
Um, but I would say this, and I really
wanna come talk about this briefly
before we kind of finish up today.
A lot of times we'll use Sunday as our
Sabbath rest, and I'm not against Sunday.
Technically.
Sabbath rest would've been Saturday, but.
There's no, again, there's no
requirement to practice that on any
specific day, but a lot of times we
use Sunday as our time of Sabbath rest.
And so we may come physically to
church, and we may do tangible
things in serving, but are we
coming in actually Sabbath resting?
Are we taking time to worship on Sundays,
or are we coming out of duty and service?
Are we taking time to repent?
During service and on Sundays
and and reflect on Sundays, or
are we coming because we have to.
I mean, I know all the kids out
here, but sometimes my kids say
this, like we have to go to church.
You may be sitting in this room
because a spouse says you have to go.
because you feel like that I'm
going to text you again if you don't
come for the third straight week.
Sorry, not sorry.
I love you all too much.
Um, I don't know, but are you
coming with the right heart?
Because you may claim this as your
Sabbath rest, and I'm not saying, like,
this is the end all, but I'm saying
this can be part of your Sabbath rest.
To literally take this day and go, God,
wow, I remember what you created me for.
I remember how you created me.
You knit me my mother's womb.
You gave me a purpose.
You're an almighty God.
Oh God, you're so good.
It allows you time to just sit and
understand that you are broken and
that you are in need of God every day
and that you weren't godly this week.
I, I mean, I'm just telling you this.
Every Sunday is a great opportunity to
reflect and ask God a couple of questions.
God, have I done anything, said
anything, acted in a way that not
only just dishonors you, but it's
just not valuable for my life.
Is there any influences in my life
that are just not good for me?
Lord, help me turn from them.
Not because you're judging me as though
I'm this horrible person, but because
you want something better for me.
God, help me turn from these things.
Do we take time to do that?
Or is Sundays a religious duty?
Is Sundays, you're looking
at your calendar going, Do I
serve in children's this week?
Do I gotta do setup?
Man, I gotta get there early.
Oh gosh, I gotta preach again.
Or do we look at it as an opportunity?
To actually experience God's Sabbath
rest through Jesus Christ, right?
These things, at times, these things
that we do, coming on Sunday, can become,
in our minds, our offering to the Lord.
And the Lord says, I don't want it.
I don't want it.
I'd rather have your heart
than whatever else you do.
than you just to have a perfect
attendance on Sunday morning.
I'd rather have, I'd rather
you, you have my rest.
Is this, I'm hoping, is this
convicting or affirming to you?
Because for some of you may be
sitting here going, Praise God,
I experienced the Sabbath rest.
I experienced on a Sunday morning.
Some of you may be like,
I am dead in my heart.
I am dead in my worship.
I am dead in my repentance.
And I have not experienced the
Sabbath rest that God has given me.
And I know this, it's easy for us to
forget what Jesus has done for us.
Jesus died so that we can experience rest.
Why do we keep denying rest
and saying that my work is
more important than your rest?
So one of my last questions to you
is, as image bearers of God to the
world, have you, we, accepted Jesus
fulfillment of the Sabbath rest?
By repenting of our sins and
accepting His eternal rest.
I want to give you a quote here.
It's been said that most
people in our world are being
crucified between two thieves.
The regrets of yesterday
and the worries of tomorrow.
And that's why we can't enjoy rest today.
That's tough.
God has given us an example of why He
implemented Rest into our lives, to
worship and remember, to celebrate and
enjoy, to take time to repent and evaluate
our lives, to truly experience His rest.
And the Sabbath rest helps us
remember to trust God, remember to
see small work, and depend on Him.
You know, I, I started thinking through
this the other day, um, I actually
went to the chiropractor last week
and I got an x ray on my back, it's
been having just lower back issues.
And, uh, he shows me his picture, and
really, he kind of puts the picture
up there, and he leaves, and he comes
back to tell me about the picture, but
I already knew something was wrong.
My lower back had this little
curve, and I'm like, that doesn't
look right, no longer I feel pain.
Um, and he began to talk to me, and he's
like, hey, it's good that you came in,
because if you would have kept allowing
your back to hang out this way, over
time, it would, and he showed me some of
the pictures, it could look like this.
And then you would have to probably
go have surgery, and I wasn't
anywhere near that, but he's like,
Honestly, what happens is people don't
come in to get their backs fixed.
They just ignore the pain, they ignore
what they're feeling, and they keep
driving on thinking, if I just work,
if I just keep working hard, if I
just ignore it, it's gonna fix itself.
See, that really made me start thinking
that if we don't take time to rest,
evaluate our lives, we're gonna end
up like that spiritually one day.
I'm gonna end up like that spiritually
one day, where my back is mangled,
and I will be disabled spiritually.
In a way that I may recover from, but
not the way that I could have if I
would have just done something sooner.
So I'm thankful I went
to the Carpenter Center.
And I'll just challenge this, I think
you'll be thankful if you come to Jesus.
I think you'll be thankful if you'll
take time today just to say, Lord,
I want to experience your rest.
So we're going to take some
time during invitation to just
pour our hearts out to God.
I love you.
I'll just walk you through a couple
of things that we can think through
and pray through, and I hope that
you will take some time to do that.
I hope you do.
So let me just pray for us.
Lord Jesus, um, I just pray, Lord,
that as we take some time for
invitation, Lord, this is the time.
I believe that so many in this
room can experience your rest.
Lord, I pray that you clear their minds
of the regrets of yesterday, and you clear
their minds of the worries of tomorrow,
and you allow them, Lord, in this moment
to sit right where they are, Lord, and
to experience your rest, your presence,
your word, your truth, your life.
God, help me experience I know
I need it personally as well.
So Lord, work through our hearts.
So the first thing that I want to lead
you to pray this morning, and this
is where I believe we have to start.
It's really the last question
that I posed to you earlier.
As I just challenge you, right where
you sit, ask the Lord this question.
Have I truly rested in
you as Lord and Jesus?
Lord and Savior of your lives.
Ask the Lord that question.
Have I truly accepted you?
Your rest and whatever the Lord responds
to you, there's a next step But I just
want you to take some time to do that.
Lord, have I truly accepted your
rest through a relationship with you?
So take some time to ask
the Lord that question
So I believe there's two
responses the Lord will give you.
Number one is yes But maybe not
recently There's another one where you
you actually hear the Lord say you've
never given your life to Jesus And I
believe right now where you're sitting,
you can give your life to Jesus.
I believe that you can repent
of your sins and ask God to
forgive you and to experience
the blessings that He has in you.
That's how simple it is.
So if you're sitting here right now, and
you're saying, I've never experienced
true rest in Jesus, where you've
given your life to Him, I challenge
you right where you sit to ask the
Lord to give you that true rest.
Those of you that have given your
lives to Christ, maybe you're
sitting there and you're saying,
I haven't experienced it recently.
What do we do?
I think once you've asked the Lord that
question, you know where your heart is,
I think it's time to start taking time
to worship the Lord, and experience the
original creation rest that God had given.
So I want you to just take some time
right now to reflect back to day 7.
Imagine you're sitting there
with God, and God just got
done working, and He's resting.
And you're resting beside Him,
and you're experiencing creation.
And you're experiencing
all that God has just done.
I want you to just begin to worship Him
and say, Thank you, Lord, for creation.
Thank you for my life.
Thank you for what you've done in my life.
So just take some time to
worship the Lord and thank Him.
The
next one is one that I think is the
most difficult at times in our lives.
It's, I'm hoping that as you've
taken time to worship Him, remember
what the Lord has done for you.
What He's done in creation.
That this next part will be easier.
I challenge you to just ask the
Lord to reveal to you right now
areas of your life where you need
to repent eternally from your sin.
Sin is experiencing the least.
It's not experiencing God's best.
God has something greater for you.
So ask God to bring to your mind or
your heart what you need to repent
of, and I'm just going to give you
some areas He may be leading you to.
Number one, maybe that you haven't
given Him your time, which means you
haven't given And rest of your life.
Maybe it's your finances, maybe it's
your family or your job, or here's
a difficult one of your purity.
So if God puts some of those
things on your heart, I just pray
that you ask the Lord to forgive
you and help you experience the
blessing of rest in those areas.
So take some time to do that.
Last thing that I want to challenge you
to just ask the Lord to help you with,
which you may have already done just
in that time, but I want you to just
ask the Lord to help you experience.
It's Sabbath rest this week.
That may just be resting for an hour
away from all the distractions of life.
That may be resting for a full day.
That may be getting away with your
spouse somewhere and taking some rest.
I don't know what it is, but just ask
the Lord to help you cease from work
and experience true Sabbath rest.
Not because you have to, but
because He wants to bless you.
So ask God to help you
experience that this week.
I want to challenge you with this thought.
Something that me and Brittany
have really struggled with at
times and have really reflected.
Um, if you're anything like
us, um, life is chaotic.
When you plant in a church, many
jobs you have, as many kids you have.
And something that we have tried to redeem
is our attitudes towards our busy life.
Um, we can either enjoy
it or we can hate it.
I think recently we've been seeing that
is although it seems like we're always
going one place or the other, I feel
like I've been experiencing some rest.
Um, and I'm gonna try
not to get emotional.
Um,
just watching my kids
enjoy what they love to do.
Not thinking about you guys,
not thinking about ministry.
Because that's what I think about 24 7.
And, uh, those have been some of the
most restful moments, just enjoying
the presence of God in their lives.
You know, seeing my kids just do what
they love to do, and just resting in that.
So for some of you, you may go, how, with
the busy lives that we have, and all the
kids that we have, how do we get rest?
Sometimes you just gotta find it there.
Sometimes you just gotta find it
in holding your spouse's hand.
Why you're in the middle of the chaos,
and you just rest and you experience
God's creation in that moment.
And you thank God for who He
is and what He's provided.
Yes, I believe, and I'm challenging
myself to get more quote unquote rest.
Not sleep, although I feel
like I've worked on that a lot.
But true rest from work.
True rest from the pressures of life.
And even I'm wrestling with that, guys.
And so I'll just tell you as your pastor.
If you struggle with it, I do too.
It doesn't mean we stay there.
It means we keep pursuing the blessing
that God has provided all the way
back in creation from day seven.
And I'm going to continue to pursue
it, even in those moments of craziness.
And I challenge you, just don't.
I mean, we're here for
transformation, not information.
I pray that you don't leave
out of here and go, I'll praise
God, I mean, I hope you decide.
I hope that you take it and you go,
I'll praise God, I found something
the Lord revealed in my time.
invitation to experience.
God says He's experienced.
This rest for us is a blessing.
Reach out and grab it this week.
Because on the other side of a
blessing, man, is the presence of God.
Let's stand and let's worship.
Let's go.